# Data-Analytics-and-Web-Application-using-R

## Problem Statement:
### The GoForFit App was created with the purpose of “​Sports Education and Fitness Assessment,Intervention and Monitoring for School Children”. As with any app, this app is supported by adatabase which contains the fitness assessment results of thousands of school students from allover India. However, this data, due to its enormity, virtually serves no purpose unless it isensured of its consistency and is analysed scrupulously. This project aims at solving thisproblem of data analysis on the GoForFit App Database by cleaning data and analysing it toreach important conclusions.

## History of the problem:
### India, with her vast diversity, is yet to showcase extraordinary talent in a large number, when itcomes to sports and fitness, save some accomplished sportspersons that she has contributed tothe sports industry. A major reason for this is the lack of technical and financial supportprovided to students at the school level as well as a lesser amount of amenities for sportspersons.
### One requirement is for talent from all corners of the country to be recognizedand nurtured, as well as training students with sports potential.Another aspect is the growing concern for the decreased levels of fitness across all ages, owingto the availability of a variety of fast food, adulteration in foods and the increasing prevalenceof a sedentary lifestyle. This, in turn, has led to a surge in the number of lifestyle-relatedconditions like diabetes mellitus. Diabetes currently affects more than 62 million Indians, whichis more than 7.1% of the adult population. Nearly 1 million Indians die due to diabetes every year.
### With startling figures such as these, it is a necessity to focus on increasing the level ofawareness about lifestyle choices and fitness.Hence, the promotion of sports and fitness at the school level is a large step taken towards thegrowth of the sports culture in the country. The GoForFit App, specifically, helps conduct fitness assessments with greater ease and makes way for their analysis with efficiency. Using the dataobtained from a huge number of fitness tests, it is possible to analyse various aspects of one’sfitness, to compare students and recognize extraordinary talent.

